 I'm turning today to Paul's letter to the Galatians, chapter 5 and verse 15. Galatians
 chapter 5 verse 15, but if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you be not consumed
 one of another. This I say then, "Walk in the Spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust
 of the flesh." And our subject is very simply the believer's victory over sin, and really
 I'd like to come to the 16th verse, "Walk in the Spirit is astonishing promise. Walk
 in the Spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh of the fallen human nature."
 That's what we must consider the 15th verse first before we come into the subject. If
 he bites and devours one another, take heed that you be not consumed one of another.
 And the question arises, why does the apostle make this particular exhortation, as it were,
 in verse 15? He's been dealing with the Judaizing heresy. The Judaizers, you remember, were
 following the apostle around, and when churches in Gentile territory were founded, many people
 were converted as the apostle, the preachers moved on. So the Judaizing heretics would
 come and they would try to convince the young church, in this case, the churches of South
 Galicia, that Christ wasn't enough, that they would need to be proselytes, Jewish proselytes,
 to be circumcised and to seek to obey, comply with the Jewish ceremonial law. In other
 words, the atoning death of Christ was insufficient for salvation. Salvation was not by faith
 in that, after all. And he's dealt with this and he's refuted the Judaizing heretics and
 he's made various appeals and he's expressed his confidence that the people of Galicia,
 the South Galician churches will respond and will separate themselves from that heretical
 teaching. But then this comment suddenly leaps in. But if he bites and devour one another,
 take heed that he'd be not consumed one of another. And I think we may assume that the
 unrest that the heresy was causing in the churches and loosening the hold of the people
 from Christ and dependence upon him and love for him was leading to this situation of people
 being highly critical of each other and accusing each other if he bites and devour one another.
 But we'll look at it in passing. It is important for us in our day this would certainly refer
 to any tendency to gossip and just bite behind the back as it were. If he bites interesting
 language, in other words gossip or anything like that is intended to hurt, like a bite.
 My dogs bite and cats bite, whoever heard of human beings biting, suddenly becoming savages
 and biting each other when it's used figuratively of course. But the bite is intended to hurt.
 So comments about one another behind the back, they bite, intended to hurt and it gets worse.
 It leads to the devouring one of another which is figuratively, presumably means making
 nothing of each other, taking away the reputation and the standing of the other person so that
 person becomes nothing, devoured, disappeared. If he bites and devour one another, take heed.
 Your fellowship will disappear that you've been not consumed one of another. Your community,
 your spiritual community will be destroyed. Certainly, the Holy Spirit will withdraw and
 there will be much hypocrisy. You can't gossip and serve the Lord. You can't make derogatory
 comments behind one another's backs. If you've got a problem, deal with it openly in the
 scriptural manner. But you can't do things like this and bites and hurt each other and
 still serve the Lord and please him. You can only put on a pretense. So it leads to hypocrisy
 and it leads to the withdrawing of the Spirit and it leads to the diminution of all good things
 and the loss of a fellowship. That's the intention of verse 15. So the Galatians have warned and
 we are all warned of the need for great carefulness and the duty of maintaining all Christian affection
 and care one to another. But then the Apostle passes on in verse 16 to the great promise
 and it is a promise. All translators render it in a similar way. There are one or two who
 differ. Tindale makes the second part of verse 16 an exaltation rather than a promise.
 That's very unusual. All are decided that this is intended as a promise. This I say then,
 walk in the Spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust, the desires of the fallen heart.
 That word fulfill is interesting. It translates the Greek for complete. In other words,
 the promises that you won't feel sinful desires, that you won't have temptations,
 the promises that you'll be immune from having wrong desires rising up within your own heart
 and coming to you from the world outside, temptations from within, temptations from without.
 The promise is, walk in the Spirit and you shall not fulfill complete. They can be there,
 but you won't implement them. You won't have the taste or desire to implement them.
 You're already well equipped to resist them. That's the idea. Walk in the Spirit and you
 shall not complete or fulfill or carry out the lust, the desires of the fallen human heart,
 which is what the apostle means here by the flesh. Well, the key thing is to understand
 what it means to walk in the Spirit. If we walk in the Spirit, then half the battle is accomplished.
 If you're filled with the Spirit, there is no room for the world, as the old saying goes.
 But what does it mean to walk in the Spirit? Now there is a different way,
 to markedly different ways of looking at this these days. It's the charismatic way
 to walk in the Spirit in the view of most charismatic, I'd be careful in generalising
 because there are people of charismatic persuasion. I think they're still mistaken,
 but they are very sincere and very earnest and they wouldn't necessarily subscribe to what I'm
 about to say. But the majority of Charismatics seem to have these vague ideas that walking in
 the Spirit simply means getting very excited. Speaking in tongues, not that anybody speaks in
 tongues in a biblical way today, biblical tongues were real languages. They were remarkable,
 miraculous gift of speaking a language, a real language you would never learn.
 And it had special purposes. And that was a gift for the foundation stage of the church
 before the Scriptures were complete. However, you don't have that today, but some people think
 this can be worked up and you can have exciting sensational type of manifestations and gifts and
 dinglings down your spine and visions and all words of knowledge and all sorts of strange and
 mystical things. And that is what it means to walk in the Spirit. That's not what it means
 to walk in the Spirit. That's a massive diversion. If someone's mind, even a sincere person,
 is taken up by those kind of objectives and aims and aspirations, they can't easily walk
 in the Spirit. Walking in the Spirit is defined in the Scripture, most carefully and repeatedly.
 So we need to remind ourselves, what is it to walk in the Spirit? Because if only
 we walk in the Spirit, then we will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. All our inclinations and
 tastes and desires are on our side now and against fulfilling the lusts of the flesh.
 As I say then, walk in the Spirit. So what is it to walk in the Spirit? Well, I'm going to
 give a number of headings very briefly, which are scriptural elements of walking in the Spirit.
 And if we do this, we are mightily strengthened. The first thing clearly is to study the Word
 and be people of the Word, Christians who rely on the Word and feed on the Word day by day.
 Let me tell you briefly, without turning to many texts, a simple truth.
 In the New Testament, particularly in Epistles of Paul, the Spirit and the Word are almost
 interchangeable terms. For example, in the letters of the Ephesians, you'll get a long list of
 instructions of things that you are to do in the Spirit. In Colossians, you get exactly the same
 instructions, repeated, only this time you're told to do them by the Word, which it's almost
 interchangeable, in the Spirit equals by the Word. So this is one important aspect that to walk in
 the Spirit is to be a believer who is welded to the Word of God and takes from it and feeds on it
 and loves it and learns from it and asks questions whenever he reads the Word of God.
 We often mention these things. You can have them in the back of the Bible until they're in your
 minds. What is this passage to say to me? Is there a view of Christ? Is there a view
 of some attribute of God? Is there a doctrine in the passage that I'm reading?
 But I didn't notice in my hurried reading, pause and read again. Is there a teaching, a doctrine?
 Is there a duty to believers that I'm neglecting, that I'm missing?
 Is there a reproof? Perhaps for me, in this passage, is there an encouragement and a consolation?
 I feed on the Word of God. I look for the things which the Word of God provides to me.
 Is there a statement about God's plans and purposes that will give me perspective
 as to how I look at this life and my life in the world? And we ask these questions in our mind
 whatever we read and we take that matter and subject and we thank God for it and praise him for it.
 And if it's a duty or a reproof, apply it to our hearts. As you interact and feed upon
 the Word of God to nourish and uplift your soul, you are walking in the Spirit.
 And your tastes are so formed and your memory bank of Christian duties and responsibilities
 so built up by somebody who's under the governance and the guidance and the coaching
 and the rule of the Word of God that's walking by the Spirit. And you will not fulfill the lust
 of the flesh. Do you hear about a Christian who has a great fall? Something's been missing
 because the promise of God is that if that believer was feeding on the Word of God,
 walking by the Spirit in that sense, they would have been guarded against any inclination to yield
 to that extreme sin. So this counts for us. Gone are the hasty rush through the Scripture to get
 my duty done, my reading done. Now I try to find sometimes someplace when I can settle down
 with the Word, my greatest companion, the Word of God. So that's the first thing.
 Walk in the Spirit is to make proper use of the Word of God. The Savior said,
 "Santify them through thy truth in his great so-called high priestly prayer.
 Sanctify them that disciples the people of God through thy truth thy Word is truth."
 Same thoughts. So to walk in the Spirit is to walk in the Word. Secondly, and this is obvious,
 it is to be a man or a woman of prayer, of meaningful daily prayer, real interaction through Christ
 with the Father on high. All the things we have to do in prayer. And I used to have a list
 for years in the back of my Bible of the chief categories of prayer. And then it becomes printed
 into your brain. First category, what do I do when I pray? I adore him and praise him.
 I adoration, first thing in any service of worship. What do we do when we open the service?
 We don't say, "Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. Thank you, Lord, for being there for me."
 We're so all God mighty and everlasting God, supreme, sovereign God on high.
 And we adore him. And we think of his attributes and we humble ourselves in his mighty holy presence.
 And that should be in our prayer every day to adore the Lord. Then to praise him for what he's
 done and what he goes on doing. And then we've got to confess our sin. And that's done very
 weekly sometimes because we haven't examined our hearts. We don't even pause. Sometimes think,
 "What have I done today?" To come before the Lord in repentance.
 And repentance isn't complete until it's accompanied by a pledge
 to make every effort to avoid that sin in the future by the help of God.
 That must be there to ask forgiveness and to pledge obedience. The two things go together.
 Then intercession. Who is on your prayer list? We don't go around asking each other these
 questions, but it wouldn't be a bad idea if we did. Who is on your prayer list this week?
 If you want another and would be stumble and say, "Oh, well, I had time to think about that
 this week." That's awful. Save by the blood of Christ because people prayed for us
 and we don't have a ministry of intercession for others. So we have to intercede. Then we
 have to dedicate ourselves again to the Lord. Then we have to bring our needs before him
 and our problems and we have to seek strength and help and blessing. So many things to do in prayer.
 As I say then, walk in the Spirit, be children of the Word, pray. But thirdly, I'm going to add to
 prayer something else. And this is sometimes the missing Christian duty, but it's walking in the
 Spirit. Third category, do I spend any time reflecting? Now this is a problem today
 and it's a problem because culture and society have so changed.
 This is a city, of course, but two, three hundred years ago the likelihood is that the vast majority
 of us in this congregation would be doing something manual and something which was largely repetitive.
 And we could do almost on autopilot, maybe out of town plowing in the fields,
 sowing and so on, in town, sitting laboriously at a machine all day, which did the same thing.
 And you had time to reflect. People had much more time to reflect. Nowadays, it's a crazy age,
 crammed with information and things to be doing. You don't even mostly walk from one place to
 another. You drive, which requires concentration. Where our minds occupied the entire time
 and reflection was gone. But Christian people need to reflect. They need to think
 Philippians 4 verses 6 to 9. To think on these things, so important, reflect, think.
 Every one of us, we need to give time to reflecting on the experiences we've had
 and God's dealings with us and the things for which we're grateful. We're not grateful
 because we don't reflect very much. We don't think this is remarkable, that in my life,
 the Lord has done this and done that and shown me this and shown me that. And I must praise him
 and thank him. We don't reflect on Christ. We don't reflect on the Scriptures that we've read.
 We don't reflect on the things we hear. Reflections very important
 take some time every day to develop the habits of reflecting on the wonderful things of God.
 Somebody said to me only last week, "How do I love Christ more?" Well, you can't love out of the air.
 You can't love Christ without looking at him and reflecting on him and remembering
 all that he is and all that he's done and all that he's done for you and all that he
 means to you. It takes reflection to have love in natural human relations it does.
 You can't love somebody you never seen or have never seen or never think about.
 So reflection is huge in the Christian life to marvel at the words, to reflect on these things,
 to anticipate things. How long have we given to reflect upon death and future glory?
 And the things that God has revealed to us in his word that happened to us after death
 and the wonders that lie before us and the glory of Christ and of God. In this week or last week or
 last year, reflection is so precious. If you can somehow in the middle of a busy family life
 and working life make some time for reflection, it's so valuable to you. If you reflect,
 you appreciate and you love and these things are treasures to you and promise becomes true.
 Walk in the Spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh and do read Philippians 4
 from verses 6 and you'll see all the duties of reflection going right through to verse 9.
 Fourth category I'll give you because time is flying away. It's this, heed the Spirit. Take notice
 of the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit means take notice of him, not in the charismatic sense.
 Oh, I imagine something today. I believe therefore it is a word from God. It is an authoritative word
 from God. No, you won't get authoritative words from God by the Spirit, just lobbed into your mind.
 Anything authoritative and a doctrine, something of that kind, is in the Word. However, the Spirit
 may remind you of things. There are many promptings of the Spirit. They won't be new information,
 but brother or sister of yours in the Lord is acting a hypocrite. You better confront him
 and tell him you're a hypocrite. The Spirit just told me crazy things go on in charismatic circles.
 Now, that doesn't happen, but the Holy Spirit may very well remind you of a scriptural duty
 that you well know about, but you have neglected or prompt you or move you to help a brother or
 sister in need, which is your known scriptural duty. That's not new revelation, but you're
 reminded of something. In fact, because you prayed a God and walk in the Spirit, he may very often
 remind you of things that were very, very important, that you would clean forgotten.
 And it is kindness. He put it into your mind because you love him and trust him.
 But the main prompting of the Spirit is in your conscience. Somebody has said something which is
 greatly unfair, provocative, unreasonable, and you are about to respond in kind
 in an unpleasant way, in an inappropriate way. But before your Word becomes audible,
 the response, you have a spasm of conscience. Your conscience is picked.
 He, the Spirit, choke the Word back, pray to God, compose yourself, behave as a Christian man
 or woman. He, the Spirit, he will help you in this way. He'll move your conscience to avoid wrong.
 He'll often prompt you to duties, to do that which is right and good works and to please him.
 He'll help you in these things, but heed the Spirit. That's the fourth category.
 And in that connection, he'll heed you in other ways. Coming back to self-examination,
 pray to God to help you examine yourself and the Spirit will help you and bring to your attention
 the things over which you need to repent and change.
 Pray for help to mortify the sin and the Holy Spirit will give you the strength to put to death
 that sin. Dedicate yourself to the Lord. I could turn to Romans 12. This is all part of
 heeding the Spirit, really. But Romans 12, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God
 that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable
 service, and be not conformed to this world. You know the passage. And with all the instructions
 attached to it, this is the Spirit of God. And if you obey this and you dedicate yourself to him,
 well, he'll help you and he'll prompt you and he'll strengthen you. I give just quickly a fifth
 aim, and it's this a fifth category. It's plans and aims.
 Have you planned your day, your week spiritually? You'll probably be a good organizer.
 You've done it for secular things. You've got your job, your work, your program, your timetable
 planned. Have you now done the same thing for your spiritual life?
 Bearing in mind all my commitments and responsibilities,
 when am I going to fit my devotions? When am I going to fit my time for reflection?
 Where am I going to fit this and fit that? This sin that keeps coming to me,
 and I give way to it. Am I making that a priority today?
 I won't name a sin whatever it might be, but you know what it is? This sin. I'm going to make it a
 special target of my attention today. I'm pray for help and watch it and watch myself
 and resist it. Have I got plans and aims? I am determined by the help of God to do much better
 and to begin to eradicate this tendency. And then witness, oh, I'm a nervous person
 and I find it very difficult to suddenly speak out within, if you've got a plan,
 various people who you do have the opportunity of speaking to just introduce them to the idea
 gently that your question says, oh, but my church is somebody who has had this experience and that
 experience. Oh, she goes to church. She goes to church. Open the way for yourself. Have you got
 a plan? Have you ever thought about this? What will be my route to one day perhaps having the
 opportunity to speak the word in season to that person? So I'm putting this on walking in the
 spirit. Do we plan anything spiritually about how we're going to progress or what we're going to do
 in the service of the Lord? That's Romans 12, 11. We're always fervent for him and serving him.
 You see, the charismatic, he doesn't do any of this. Well, some do. I mustn't generalise,
 but most of them don't do any of this. They say to us, give me some exciting experience,
 some sensational experience. That's walking in the spirit. It isn't.
 Because walking in the spirit does include things like joy and peace in believing. That's all part
 of reflection. Do you reflect? That gives you joy and peace. I'm reading, you may say,
 something rather heavy at the moment, full of exhortation, and it brings me down on my knees
 before the Lord. Yes, well, don't read only that. Also, go to some of your favourite songs
 so that at the same time you are lifted up and strengthened and you preserve your joy and your
 peace. Then you may say to yourself, yes, I'm reading an Old Testament book. Well, then take a
 break every now and then and read a portion of the Gospels and bring Christ into view,
 so that always your joy and peace in having him and being his is alive within you.
 These headings I offer to you. What is it to walk in the spirit, to be a child of the word,
 to be a child of prayer, to be a child of reflection, to be a child who heeds the spirit,
 and to be one who has aims and plans to walk in the spirit and to serve and nurture the spiritual
 life? And then is the promise. This I say then, walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfil the lust
 of the flesh. I brought something along to read you, just in closing. I found a few weeks ago
 a hymn of what I had never noticed before. It's not in our book. It's not in many books. I don't
 think it is one or two that I know of. I've found it. But here it is,
 words to tell us, to motivate us in dealing with sin and the flesh. Listen to the way this goes.
 For all my sins, my dearest Lord, hung on the cursed tree, tormented in his dying life
 for thee, my soul, for thee. Oh, how I hate those lusts of mine that crucified my God,
 those sins that pierced and nailed his flesh fast to the fatal wood.
 Yes, my Redeemer, they shall die. My heart has so decreed, I will not spare those guilty things
 that made my Saviour bleed. What a line of thought that is in that old hymn of what's.
 See your sins for which he suffered on Calvary, and you'll be motivated to put them to death
 right now in this present life. Well, here's the promise. Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not
 fulfil the last of the flesh.
