 I'm turning now to the Gospel of John, chapter 15, and verse 1.
 The Gospel of John, chapter 15, verse 1, the words of Christ, "I am the true vine, and
 my father is the husbandman," the seventh of the "I am" sayings of Christ recorded
 in the Gospel of John, that is all seven.
 And there is an eighth, but it appears in the book of Revelation, "I am the alpha and
 the omega."
 Here we're looking at, "I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman."
 I am.
 We've tried to explain these words before they come from the book of Exodus, they come from
 Almighty God's revelation of Himself when Moses asked, "Who shall I say spoke to me
 and called me and gave me these instructions?
 And God gave His name, 'I am that I am the one self-existent being Almighty God.'
 And Christ takes this very name of God so famous among the Jews of old, they knew exactly
 what He meant, and with the seven sayings in the Gospel of John, "I am the bread of life,"
 and so on.
 And here we have, "I am the true vine."
 Each one says something different about salvation, how to come to God through Christ, and how
 to know Him, and walk with Him.
 Each one has a very obvious and yet distinct point to make, "The I am is in all of them.
 I am the true vine."
 It may be that a vine was visible to Christ even as He spoke.
 It doesn't matter very much whether it was so or not, but it could be.
 That wasn't what really triggered this statement.
 It comes about because the vine in the Old Testament Scriptures was the great symbol
 or picture of Israel of old.
 And in fact, the prophets complained to the people that they are a hopeless vine, a vine
 that has yielded bad fruits or no fruits in Isaiah chapter 5.
 There's the great parable of the prophet Isaiah, the parable of the vineyard, and God planted
 a beautiful vineyard and looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild
 grapes.
 Some, too, get the same idea, and other scriptures to disciples knew this, that Israel was given
 great privileges in those times by God and demonstrations of His power and goodness in
 order to bring them to serve Him and live for Him, and they were to be in the world of
 a vine, and with branches that went out and influenced the nations, but it never turned
 out to be so.
 Most of them, some of them had faith, but most of them had no faith.
 And it's in that context that Christ says to the disciples, "I am the true vine."
 Israel was not the true vine.
 It never fulfilled that symbol, that picture, "I am the true vine."
 Life, spiritual life, comes from me.
 And this is the emphasis, the matter which really counts in this statement.
 It is about the imparting of life.
 The "I ams" speak of other things, the procuring of life, the earning of life.
 How is eternal life to be procured, brought into being made possible only by Christ, only
 by His coming, only by His atoning death for sinners on Calvary?
 So having secured eternal life, there is then the next step of communicating it, of transmitting
 it to men and women who come to Him.
 And that's what this parable is about.
 That's what it is, in effect to this statement, a miniature parable.
 So to have this life, you have to be connected to Christ.
 You have to obtain it from Him.
 There is no other way.
 He purchased it by His suffering and death and His perfect life.
 For us, He alone conveys it, gives it, and the vine illustration is perfect for that.
 So people grew these vines and looked at them for great harvest, and quite often, in the
 ancient world, they failed.
 And there was no crop or very poor crop.
 So people knew all about this illustration.
 The vine must yield fruit, and in order for us to have any fruit as it were, any connection
 with God, lives that are acceptable to Him, to live for Him, and love Him, and serve Him.
 We have to derive life from the only one who can give it, who's procured it in the first
 place, and that is Christ.
 And that's broadly speaking the meaning of, "I am the true vine, and My Father is the
 husband."
 This was spoken on the Thursday before Good Friday, the crucifixion of Christ.
 This is the last complete day.
 There has been in the upper room, there has been the washing of the disciples' feet,
 the Lord's Supper, there has been the statement that one of them is going to betray Him.
 They're very down at that.
 "Who?
 Is he die?
 Is he die?"
 They're very troubled by that.
 Judas is sent out, the disciples don't necessarily realize that He's going to enact the betrayal,
 so they're still confused and cast down Christ comforts them, and then after further instruction
 is to arise, let us go in, and they begin that Thursday evening walk to the Garden of
 Olives, the Garden of Gethsemane, and there after his sufferings in that garden he's going
 to be betrayed, and the great crowd of Levitical police and Roman soldiers are going to come
 with the chief priests, are going to come and arrest him, and he's going to allow himself
 to be taken, and then it goes through the night of trials and the crucifixion.
 So it's then, possibly on that walk, that he utters these words, "I am the true vine,"
 so it could have been as they passed a vine as well, but that's a secondary matter entirely.
 Let's look at some passages in this Gospel about life.
 First one you know very well, the famous words of Christ in John 3, 16, "For God so loved
 the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not
 perish but have everlasting life, life which begins now real life and life which goes on
 into eternity, everlasting life."
 And then verse 36 of that very same chapter, "He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting
 life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth
 on him."
 And I go to chapter 5 and verse 24, "Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my
 word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life."
 This is the Gospel of John, it's all about life.
 Life as opposed to mere earthly life, spiritual life, and eternal life.
 Then chapter 10, I must read this before, I really get down to the explanation, it's
 a vital and verse 10, "The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy,
 I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly, vastly
 superior to mere earthly life."
 And then verse 28 of that same chapter, "I give unto them eternal life, and they shall
 never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand."
 And then moving from there to chapter 17, verses 2 and 3, just a final quotation, and
 it sets us up.
 Here are the words, "As thou hast given him," this is the prayer of Christ, "to the Father,
 as thou hast given him, himself, power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life
 to as many as thou hast given him," and this is life eternal, that they might know the
 only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent, "I am the true Thine."
 Now if you've never come to God and sought him and trusted in Christ and received life
 from him, then all you have is earthly life, that's all you have.
 It's better than only animal life, sentient life, you have conscious human life.
 But nevertheless, it's all you have, earthly experience.
 Your whole life is lived within boundaries, limitations.
 You'll know nothing of God, nothing of spiritual things, you have no friend in heaven, no help
 from on high, no power work within you to help you to change you, no clear view or understanding
 of spiritual things, just earthly life.
 And you have, in addition, we may say only temporary life, because it will only last
 so many years, and then your soul takes flight and it goes before God to give account of
 what you've done in this life, and whether you've spurned him or whether you've loved
 him and lived for him and paid your rent, your homage to him, and obeyed him.
 And you've got to give accounts.
 So what you have now, you may be thinking and I used to think like this as a youngster,
 "Oh, I've got life, and I've got opportunities, and I've got certain powers and capacities,
 and I can do things with all this, and you live for this world, confident that it will
 be fulfilling, and you'll go where you want."
 But it isn't so, it's just a temporary life, and that's how you need to see it.
 You've never received from God spiritual life, and furthermore, there's something else.
 It's a corrupted life because you have sin rampant in you, in your mind, in your thoughts,
 in your heart, your feeling system, your affections and desires, in your will, it's a broken will
 and then feebled will, you'll make bad decisions, you'll cave into temptations and lusts.
 So it's very much a corrupted life.
 And not only is it a corrupted life, if you haven't got spiritual life, but we may say
 it's an enslaved life because you don't know it but you're in bondage.
 You're a servant, you're a slave, you're a slave of sin and you're whims, you don't
 know it but you're a slave of the enemy of souls, the devil, you'll do as he desires,
 as he directs, as he tempts, it's an enslaved life, and even worse.
 It's a condemned life because as I mentioned, you've got to give an account and you'll
 be condemned because you never sought after your Creator.
 That's a terrible thing, a shocking thing.
 If only I could persuade you to look at it from God's point of view.
 He fashioned you, he made you in a divine sense, he loves you.
 He gave you the things that make you the distinctive you, some combinations of capacities and
 abilities which may be only you have in the world.
 Just as we recognize each other's different places, God recognizes how he's made each
 one and he's fashioned you with great care and you're designed by him and set in this
 world and you've ignored him and spurned him and spat at him and slammed at him.
 You've gone against him and his holy will and you've spurned his standards and his
 desires.
 Look at it from God's point of view, little you, little me, specks of dust in the universe
 have shaken our fists at our Creator who made us in love and spat at him, astonishing.
 Of course we've got to give a count to that, that's a terrible, horrible thing.
 You'd hate it if you saw it on earth, if you saw a really good father, a really good
 mother who was really good to his and her children and cared for them and cherished
 them and loved them to see that child grow up heady and rebellious and spurned them
 and offend them and invent lies against them, but we're dealing with Almighty God.
 So that's life, if we have no spiritual life, physical only, earthly only, temporary only,
 corrupted only, enslaved and condemned and here in the Gospel of John, I am come that
 they might have life and here I am the true vine, I am the stem, the trunk as it were,
 a vine isn't quite like that but it's the best way to picture it and if you're in me
 attached to the source of life I will give you spiritual life.
 Of course there's no organic join, it's a spiritual join, rather like the rain.
 If the countryside is reigned upon and it's fertile and everything grows and everything
 is green and the flowers and shrubs are beautiful where we take the rain for granted, in fact
 we're against it very often and it comes down and communicates all that is necessary to
 the soil and Christ communicates to us life if we apply for it, if there's a work of grace
 in our hearts and God is dealing with us then we begin to see our need of it and desire
 it and turn to him and ask him for it.
 First of all the soul is engaged, your soul it's dormant, it's inactive, you have a soul
 but it doesn't communicate with God, it doesn't function, it doesn't tell you anything, it
 doesn't drive you, it's quite inactive almost paralyzed and when God comes to us to communicate
 life and Christ begins a work within us that soul becomes engaged and active, we're concerned
 about the soul, we're concerned about God, we're concerned about our lives and forgiveness
 and going to heaven, we're concerned about learning of God and receiving his power and
 blessing, the soul is thirsting and active, we see the great barrier between ourselves
 and God, our sinfulness and disobedience, our lost condition, the soul is engaged and
 the components of the soul are engaged, our minds we begin to think about spiritual things
 and by the blessing of God we come to understand them, I remember when I was converted over
 a period of time with stubbornness and resistance from me, backwards and forwards but when the
 Lord opened my mind and communicated to me life, I remember it well, things becoming
 obvious, things I couldn't understand about God, about life, about its purpose, about
 the Word of God, the Scriptures, suddenly these things were so obvious you could have
 wondered why you didn't say it before, it was so wonderful and so plain and I saw my
 need and I was able to sincerely repent of sin, I saw the shockingness of my sin and
 I felt the touch of God as it were that my sin was forgiven and I felt a joy within and
 a peace with God, that peace of God which passes all understanding, this is real dear
 friends, when you come to Christ he actually communicates life to you, it affects your
 mind and you're thinking, now you want him, you desire him, you want to do right by him,
 you want his help, your mind is engaged, your heart is engaged, you love him and you
 hate the things you used to do and say, you're still likely to do some of them, you're still
 sinful but you're much better than you were and now you hate your sin and your life is
 engaged in putting it away and you love God and you love Christ and you love his Word,
 you love his people, what a change it brings about in you, your mind, your heart, your will
 becomes strong and strengthened by God and you can resolve to do the things he wants
 you to do, you are repaired and remade, we call it a new nature, it's called in scripture
 in that third chapter of this very gospel, a new birth, being born a second time, born
 from above, all dear friends I want you all to realise this, that coming to Christ and
 being saved isn't just something you imagine that is communicated to you spiritually, a
 new life and a new being, a new existence in this very passage that we're looking at,
 there was some solemn verses, verse two, every branch in me that beryth not fruit, he take
 it away, what does that mean? It means if there's somebody who claims to be Christian
 but there isn't any change in them, there isn't any new life, there isn't any love for
 God has never been any genuine repentance and they haven't, they're not really attached
 to Christ, they haven't received a new nature, a new life, they're taken away, their phone
 is, their hypocrites, Judas was such a case, now he's gone out and even as Christ says
 these words, he's betraying where the Lord is to the authorities, Christ knows he's
 doing that, he's going to go meekly to Calvary's cross but Judas didn't have new life, he didn't
 think differently, he didn't feel differently, his will wasn't for God, it was for making
 money out of this and selling Christ in betrayal, that's the difference, he's the one pictured
 here, every branch, a parent branch, that beryth not fruit, it's not drawing life from
 Christ, so yes in the visible Christian church around the world there are many people who
 think they are Christian but they've never had life from Christ, so they're not genuine
 Christians, they're still in their unconverted state, they have only earthly life, only
 temporary life, only polluted life, only enslaved life, only condemned life, like Judas and
 they are set on one side but back to the very beginning I am the true vine and my father
 is the husbandment, the vine dresser, the farmer, the father looks on what a marvelous
 statement that is just as the vine dresser will go along the vines, tending them, clearing
 out anything unwanted, anything that interferes with their prosperity and growth, tending
 them most carefully, so when you have Christ give you life you have the father himself,
 smiles upon you, loves you, cares for you, guides you, deals with you, strengthens you,
 enables you, you have all his affection and all his care, you're in his keeping, he's
 your God, you love him and he has set his love upon you, I am the true vine and my father
 is the husbandment, how do you come to him, how do you know him, verse 3, now ye are clean,
 forgiven, through the word which I have spoken unto you, in other words you believe the
 word of Christ, he said he'd come to suffer and to die for sinners, you believe him,
 he said that anyone who came to him and trusted solely in him he would give them new life,
 you believe him, now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you, you
 believe the promises of Christ, the statements of Christ, some of which I read out to you
 from John's gospel, then he receives you, you have to come to him, you have to tell
 him how much you need him, you have to repent of your sin, tell him how much you've done
 against him and against his holy law and his holy will, mean it sincerely with all your
 hearts, tell him your repent of your sin and your past life, you have to trust him that
 if you give your soul to him he will bless you and make you new and infuse into you spiritually
 and new life, so vastly different from the old life, physical only, now your soul will
 be alive, earthly only, now you'll have citizenship in heaven, you're a child of God and a citizen
 of heaven, temporary life, now you've got eternal life, you will never die, this has
 often been said by Christians down the years, when you hear that I've died, don't believe
 it, the Christian cannot die, you pass through the turning off of the light of this world
 immediately into the glory of the next, there is a sense in which death cannot touch you
 and you will never die, the temporary life becomes eternal life, the corrupted life becomes
 a new life with a new nature and an active conscience and strength from God to live according
 to his standards, the enslaved life, you no longer in bondage to Satan, doing his bidding,
 doing what he wants, you no longer in bondage to condemnation and death, you're free, truly
 free, I used to think it was the Christian who was in bondage, because he has to live
 according to this book and obey God, what bondage I used to think, no it's the unbeliever
 sadly who is in bondage to forces he knows nothing about, difference, I am the true vine
 says the Lord and my father is the husband, that's what we must do, come to him, repent
 of sin, trust in him and him alone, there's no religion apart from the Christian faith
 as a savior who came from heaven to make a substitutionary atonement for us and that's
 what we need, come to him, trust him, yield to him and he will give you a new mind, a
 new heart, a new will in life in your soul and make you his child, you must have him or
 you have nothing, let's pray friends, oh Lord, look upon us all, pray that now so work by
 thy spirit in hearts tonight that we may not be able to shrug these things off and go back
 to the world and succumb to unbelief and wave witness, Lord help us, work in every
 heart, draw men and women to thyself and bless them now and eternally, we ask it in Christ's
 name for his sake. Amen.
