 You please term with me this morning to the second book of Kings and chapter 4, the second
 book of King Kings and chapter 4 and verse 25.
 So she went and came unto the man of God to Mount Carmel, and it came to pass when the
 man of God saw her afar off that he said to Gahaiya's servant, "Behold, Yondah is that
 shunabite.
 Run now I pray thee to meet her and say unto her, Is it well with thee?
 Is it well with thy husband?
 Is it well with the child?"
 And she answered, "It is well."
 Now this is our subject this morning.
 As we come particularly to those two verses, it is well.
 But before that, I want to go through this chapter briefly to bring us up to these two
 verses, and so we will give a somewhat of an overview.
 In chapter 4 to 6 of two kings, there is a constant record of miracles under the almighty
 power of God.
 And this prefigures the time when the Lord Jesus Christ ministered in the public here
 upon this earth.
 There was this constant flow of miracles, and so it was that John records, there were
 also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one,
 I suppose, that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written.
 So here in these chapters we have before us a God's power over debt in chapter 4 verses
 1 to 7 over death in chapters 8 to 37 over drought in chapters 4, 38 to 44, and in disease
 in chapter 5 and in difficulty in chapter 6.
 And these miracles have at their heart God's love, God's power, God's deliverance, God's
 compassion, and they are for His glory.
 In the miracle here, in the verses that we have read together, there is the evidence
 of God's power over life and over death.
 And here we see before us the doctrine of God's permissive providence over our lives.
 In His dealings with His people, there are a number of aspects here, both practical and
 spiritual, that rest in this haven of God's permissive providence.
 So we just briefly look at the context then bringing us to this particular testimony of
 the woman, it is well.
 In verses 8 to 11 of chapter 4 we have the Shunemite Woman's Care.
 Shunem was a place near Mount Carmel and on the way to Samaria, Bethel and Jericho.
 A life she would often travel along this route as he visited the school of the prophets.
 One day as he entered the city a great woman, a notable woman, constrained him to receive
 from her and her husband hospitality.
 We are taught in the scriptures that we are to be given to hospitality.
 Christian care has great potential when we are given to hospitality.
 It has a great potential to bring honor to the Lord as was the case here with Elisha.
 And the care of this great woman, this Shunemite woman, developed into her ark and her husband,
 if we'd not prepare a room for Elisha with facilities.
 And so they built a room on the side of the house.
 It had independent access and provided privacy for Elisha.
 And so the husband and his wife provide this haven for Elisha as they seek the well-being
 of God's servant.
 It's good for us to consider innovative ways to support the Lord's Word, to support the
 Lord's servants like this woman did and her husband.
 Excuse me.
 Now we move on to verses 12 to 17 and here we have Elisha, the man of God, in his care.
 Again we see care manifest.
 Here it is helpful to notice the similarity with the previous event where Elisha showed
 care for the widow woman in deep debt and distress.
 His concern as God's servant was always care and that is a pastor's heart.
 He will always have care for the Lord's people.
 He will have care for those who are lost.
 What would you like me to do for you was his question.
 And the attitude of Elisha here is the perfect, brief figures, the perfect attitude of the
 Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in his ministry.
 Remember how he said to the blind man who cried unto him, "What do you want me to do
 for you?"
 This is the heart of Christ.
 And this is a question for you this morning.
 What do you want the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to do for you this morning?
 Have you a desire, or can you not be bothered?
 It's a wonderful thing if we want the Lord Jesus Christ to bless us and to know him more
 and more.
 So Elisha here is dealing with this great woman.
 She has a great wealth.
 She has great respect in the city.
 She's a notable woman.
 What is Elisha is his issue here, his burden is still care.
 And this reminds us this morning, friends, of a very important issue in caring ministry.
 A person on the outside, as you view them, and as you consider them, they may seem to
 have everything.
 This lady is describing Scripture as a great and notable woman.
 Respect it.
 She's a pillar of society, no doubt wealthy with her husband, but wealth and status cannot
 give you everything.
 And behind the status is a lady with sadness in her heart, a grief.
 She was happily married.
 She was living an honorable life.
 She feared God.
 Nevertheless she was childless.
 And she had given up hope of ever conceiving.
 Her husband was an aged man.
 But notice here that her sadness had not made her bitter against God.
 The nothingness of having no children had not made her bitter against God.
 She had already shown care here to Elisha, God's servant.
 So while it is right to look out for the poor and the oppressed as the previous event shows,
 this event shows us it is also right to demonstrate a concern for the well-being of the wealthy,
 for the well-being of those that perhaps have a higher position in society, in their workplace.
 They have souls, they have needs.
 We have to understand the nature of care.
 And you'll notice this with the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ.
 He not only cared for the poor, but he also cared for the rich.
 Well, Elisha then asked her, his servant Gheesai to ask the woman, what can I do for you?
 Her response was actually very wise.
 I'm not seeking special favour from a king or commander.
 In fact, I'm content to dwell among my people.
 I'm content to dwell among my people.
 She's not a grasping woman.
 She's a God-fearing woman.
 But Elisha does not give up at this point.
 He may well have asked her and then said, well, I've done my duty.
 She said, I'm all right.
 But rather again, the pastoral heart of Elisha, what shall be done for this woman?
 Because to do something for this woman is to honour the Lord.
 He is receiving from this woman care and kindness.
 And as a man of God, he seeks a reward of grace for her.
 Notice here also the faith of Elisha.
 What can be done for the woman who apparently has everything?
 He believes that God can do something beyond her expectation according to his suffering
 will and purpose.
 And so the information comes back to him.
 This great, kind, notable woman is actually childless.
 And now by faith, Elisha, the man of God, trusted in the living God, caused the woman
 to promise her a miracle of birth.
 Now this man of God, Elisha, he must have been inspired by the Holy Spirit of God to
 make such a statement, because only God can cause a miraculous birth in such a way.
 And he's speaking, there was no hope.
 But in verses 16 through 17 we read, "And he said about this season according to the
 time of life, thou shalt embrace the Son.
 And she said, 'Name my Lord, thou mount of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid.'
 And the woman conceived and bear a son at the season that Elisha had said unto her according
 to the time of life."
 Her reaction at first is amazement.
 In fact, she respectfully accused Elisha, the man of God, of lying to her.
 She's so fearful.
 She knows that for this promise to be fulfilled, a miracle would be required beyond the expectation
 of nature at this time.
 The woman was not really aggressively but a bellon against God's word, but she was limited
 in her understanding at this time of his power.
 And it is evident that she was forgiven by God, her lack of faith there, for as a God-fearing
 woman she received this reward of grace.
 And God's word was fulfilled.
 And she can see and she bore a son, for God has power over life.
 And we will now see that God has power over death.
 We look at the mother's loss now in verses 18 through 21.
 Now it is likely that the child is to have been around five or six at this time, and
 he's able to run about in the field.
 And after a while, he runs to his father, and he says, 'I've got this severe pain in
 my head.'
 We do not know what this was, it may have been a sudden attack of sunstroke, or maybe
 a terrible attack of something like meningitis.
 We do not know.
 We're not told.
 We're just told that he had a severe pain in his head, and that it was so severe that
 later it is recorded that he died in his mother's arms at noon.
 Now the experience that deep down in our heart that this woman feared most of all was being
 given a son, and then losing her son.
 We know this from a later conversation with Elisha.
 Now in God's permissive will here, the worst had happened.
 Her only beloved son was lying dead in her arms.
 Now at this point it's very helpful to us to remember, and this is very important in
 times like this, of great distress, to remind ourselves God's ways are higher than airways,
 and his thoughts and air thoughts for here at the lowest point of this great woman's
 life, the Shunamite woman's life, her faith and her works become more evident.
 Firstly, in her faith she does not bring attention to herself and her grief, but she acts kindly
 and discreetly.
 She places her dead child in the room of the man of God.
 Here he would not be seen or disturbed.
 This was a lysus private abode and access was limited to his room.
 The door was shut, very clearly, and thirdly, she believed by faith that the child's body
 and soul were in the Lord's hands and must not be dispirited.
 And fourthly, this was an action that signifies casting her burden upon the Lord.
 Hope in his intervention.
 Now we read in Hebrews 11, verse 35, "Women receive their dead, raised to life again."
 She's numbered amongst the worders of faith in Hebrews 11.
 Then we see the mother's faith in action, and that is in verses 22 to 26.
 She keeps her grief and her loss to herself.
 She doesn't even tell her husband immediately about the death of their child.
 Remember, her husband was an old man.
 And she probably took this step out of kindness, didn't care for him, but out of her respect
 for her husband, she requests his permission to go on a journey, to visit a lysus.
 Her priority now was to go to the man of God.
 Her initial response was, his initial response, sorry, was, "Why go to a lysus?"
 It's not a set time, it's not a special day.
 It's only on the special days that we have teaching, and we all gather together on a
 special service, as it were, but her answer to her husband is, "It shall be well."
 Here the suenomites, woman's faith is beginning to shine.
 It shall be well.
 God is in control.
 In the overall scheme of things, God is in control.
 He knows the past, the present, and the future.
 So she hastens with her servant, without delay, and a lysus afar offer recognizes her.
 And he sends Gaheza with three questions.
 Is it well with you?
 Is it well with your husband?
 Is it well with the child?
 And she answers Gaheza, "It is well."
 Now this is one of the fundamental points here to remember in this miracle event.
 Her first reaction here this morning, when we read her response, is she's not telling
 the truth.
 It is not well.
 In fact, the situation is one of death.
 Her only beloved son has died.
 But we need to see here this morning that her answer is actually an answer of faith.
 Because despite the grief in her heart, it is well.
 Because I am going to the man of God.
 God is in control, he is the Lord's servant, I believe he will respond in a godly way as
 he is led by God.
 It is well because I believe that God is in control.
 Even though I don't understand this tremendous loss, why it has happened, it is well with
 me.
 Because in my grief, my faith is being exercised, and I still have much to be thankful for.
 I have an almighty God to go to.
 Come into a light as God's servant, it is her way of casting her care upon God.
 So she says, "It is well with my husband.
 He is being upheld in his old age.
 He continues in the fear of the Lord.
 It is well with my child, my faith."
 She says this because she believes the soul of the child is in God's care.
 It is well with his soul.
 From this we can learn a fundamental lesson, even in your time of grief, my friend.
 And remember, in your grief, you have a sympathetic high priest who is touched with the feeling
 of her infirmities.
 So we don't, we're not being unreal about grief, it's something which is very real in
 our life, and God understands this.
 But in your grief, remember the things that are well.
 Remember the things that are well.
 Now, this is not mind of a matter, my friend, it's an exercise of faith helping you to remember
 that God is the Almighty God, he's the God over all things, he is the God of time, he
 is the God over death, he is the God of a life.
 Now this experience is unique to a Christian.
 Many a Christian can say, "In times of great loss and grief and trial and affliction,
 it is well, it is well, I know it is well with my soul, I know it is well with my eternal
 future, I am safe in the arms of the Lord Jesus Christ, nothing can separate me from
 the love of God which is in Christ Jesus, my Lord, it is well."
 Now this is the comfort of the Holy Spirit of God applying the truth of God's unchanging
 character to your soul.
 It comes through the mind, into the heart, into the soul, and so we can say it is well,
 it is well.
 God brings comfort in the trial, blessings even in times of trial, ultimately his name
 is glorified.
 Think of Paul in chains in Rome, chain to a Roman soldier and offer palace officer of
 the house of Caesar and Paul says, "Do you know what?
 This is turned out for the furtherance of the gospel, it is well."
 Some people from Caesar's palace are being converted, the den of iniquity, the darkest
 place on earth at the time, there are people being plucked out of the darkness through
 the preaching of the gospel because I am there, I am in my chains, I am in Rome, but
 it is well because God is working in a mighty way.
 This is the God that we adore friends, and what about Mary when the angel came and she
 was told that she would bear the Messiah, there would be a conception within her of
 the Holy Spirit and she would be the mother of the Messiah, the Lord Jesus, and no doubt
 there was a fear, no doubt she trembled, but this is what she says, "My soul shall magnify
 the Lord.
 I shall rejoice in God my Savior, yes I have fear, who am I?"
 But this is what I am going to do, my soul will magnify the Lord and just a little while
 later after the Lord Jesus was born.
 They took into the temple and Simeon told her, "A sword will pierce your soul also.
 You will eventually, she will be standing at the foot of the cross, looking at her Savior,
 suffering upon the cross."
 And yet she was a woman of faith, belief.
 The mother's grief, verse 27 to 28.
 Now here we see that while faith helps us to remember that God is in control, unchanging,
 faith does not remove the need of tears and grief of a loss.
 Even when we are trusting and obeying, the Lord Jesus wept in Gethsemane and you will
 never see a greater evidence of obedience to God's will than the Lord Jesus Christ in
 Gethsemane and then on to the judgment hall and on to Calvary, but read of the sufferings
 of Christ in Gethsemane.
 He was obeying, he was walking by faith in his father's will perfectly.
 There was tremendous grief though as he contemplated the sufferings that were to come.
 So here this God-fearing woman honestly said by faith it is well, but at the same time
 she had grief and here we see a lysha again as a pastor.
 He deserves although the reason has been in hell with hell from him by the Lord up until
 this time that this woman was in deep distress.
 He could see that though she'd come to sin and she said it is well, he knew from experience
 there was a problem.
 And so it is with the pastor, so it is with your dear pastor.
 He knows, he can tell, there's a problem because a lysha is not going to push her away.
 Gethse was all for pushing her away and she's too much trouble in this situation, but the
 man of God says, let her alone, her plea for a light to a lysha is the truth of her greatest
 fear.
 She's been given a child only to have it taken away.
 And this was an understandable cry my friend from the heart of a grieving mother, yet it
 was the grief with faith.
 She was at the feet of the man of God.
 She was a act of faith in grief to come to the man of God.
 And so for you in trouble this morning, remember to take your grief by faith to the Lord.
 He's not like Gahazi, he's not going to say to you this morning, go away, he's not going
 to push you away.
 The heart of God is come.
 The heart of the hard person is go, but the heart of God is come just as you are.
 Full down at the feet of the cross, he will not, he cannot say go.
 He will attend to your needs.
 Time and time again we see this crying out unto God in the Psalms.
 We have limits in our understanding, but by faith come.
 Just come, faith in God and His Word is the only reality, the only truth that will give
 you comfort and assurance in your time and tears of loss.
 There's no other way, there's no other comfort like God's comfort, there's no other comfort
 like God's Word.
 I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness we read.
 And then we have verses 29 to 31 as we hasten towards the end now.
 He directs the man of God directs and it seems here that Elisha is putting his dependence
 upon his staff and he's thinking power will come through the staff.
 And so he encourages instructions to go straight to his room without delay and lay his staff
 on the child's face and we can see here the danger of putting their trust in something.
 Like the children of Israel put their trust in the ark, they'd lost in battle.
 What we need is the ark, just bring in the ark, we do not need to repent, we do not need
 to pray, we need to just trust in this ark, something visible.
 Well, the point here is the power of God was not in his staff but in prayer.
 Elisha was a man of God, he was a prophet but he was not perfect, he was not infallible.
 Not all his instructions were right, however well meaning and so it is with us.
 We may take a course of action in sincerity and well meaning and we find there is nothing.
 It seems our labours are in vain and yet the Lord is still in control and he's in control
 because he's bringing you to the very point he intends to bring you.
 Now during these instructions and subsequent events the woman clung to the man of God by
 faith in the Lord and note her words of faith here in these verses, she says, "As the Lord
 lives my child is dead but the Lord lives, it is well.
 I will not leave you, you are a man of God."
 So in our times of struggling grief she clings by faith to the Lord and so this morning
 clung by faith to the perfect man, Jesus Christ who knows and understands, he will bring you
 through, he is the way, the truth and the life, clung my friends to the Lord Jesus Christ
 by faith, look to him, trust in him, believe in him, walk with him and now Elisha the man
 of God submits to God's way and verses 32 to 35 were now brought to the situation of
 God leading wherein there is now total dependence upon the Lord in prayer.
 You see Gahisei came back with a staff and nothing had happened but now something is
 going to happen for the man of God is in the room on his own with a dead child and he's
 going to pray and that's exactly where the Lord intended to bring Elisha in this event.
 So with you and with me in our dealings, God and his wisdom brings us to the place
 of nothing but prayer.
 I remember early on in my ministry here I was asked to arrange something with the students
 and I visited the students in their halls and we got something, a program arranged on
 I remember one Monday afternoon, Pastor called me and said I asked a question about it and
 I hadn't got the answer and I always remember his answer, his answer to me was Chris, this
 is nothing without prayer, nothing without prayer and I've never forgotten it.
 You can have all the arrangements you like but if it doesn't start with prayer and it
 is not upheld by prayer it will not be fruitful under God, nothing without prayer.
 You see friends there was nothing going to happen here without prayer but remember Satan
 trembles when he sees the weakest saint upon his knees and so Elisha goes in, he shuts
 the door again, there's privacy and he turns to prayer and this is the turning point here
 and I see the time has gone but we see here that this miracle came in two stages, first
 the body became warm, the blood began to flow again, the heart working again and then Elisha
 removes himself from the room and wonder why it was this, I think Elisha was overwhelmed
 with the holiness of God, there was such an awesome sense of the presence of God, what
 am I, I am standing on a holy ground here, God is working in this child and he goes out
 into the house and he walks up and down, up and down, no doubt completely immersed in
 prayer and he walks back into the room again and lays again on the child and the child
 sneezes seven times, a sign of completion and he opens his eyes and then we read that
 Elisha the man of God gives all the glory unto God verses 36 through 37, notice the
 humility here of Elisha to the woman, he calls the woman in take up thy son, her first response
 is to fall at his feet not to worship Elisha but to worship the God of Elisha, she picks
 up her son and she walks out, there's no emotional excitement, there's no attention to Elisha,
 how different, how different is this when God works to the rasmatas of so many so-called
 churches, bring an attention to themselves, bring an attention to the speaker or for
 the glory of man but this is an example of the glory going to God, so this is another
 in a series of miracles by the God who is infinite in power and wisdom, it was an exceptional
 event for the family but remember this was not an exceptional event for God in his power,
 this is God simply being God and remember in your pathway this morning it is well because
 God is God, he remains your saviour and your Lord and if you have this only ambition to
 live your life with the glory of God the Lord will bless you, the Lord will bring you through
 and you will be able to say ultimately in heaven it is well.
