 I'm turning this evening to the Gospel of John, chapter 14, and verse 6, the Gospel
 of John, chapter 14, verse 6, the words of Christ Jesus says unto him, "I am the way,
 the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father, but by me, and our subject is
 how is Christ the way, the truth, and the life." I want to go back just for a moment
 for some context to the previous chapter, chapter 13, and verse 36, Simon Peter says
 to the Lord, "Lord, with a ghost thou, and Jesus answered him, whether I go thou canst
 not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterward. And Peter protests, why cannot
 I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake, and Christ answers him, "Will
 thou lay down thy life for my sake, and the prediction I sound to thee the cock shall
 not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice." And I point this out because Christ is interacting
 with Peter. The previous chapter, he's had many interruptions and he's interacted in
 dialogue with the disciples, and so it is right down to the end of chapter 13. And
 there, in the last few verses, Christ is speaking personally to Peter, "Will thou lay down
 thy life for my sake? Now you come to chapter 14, and it changes. Let not your heart be
 old. Ye believe in God, believe also in me." Now he's talking to them all. He switched
 from singular to plural, from thou to ye. Now it's the old-fashioned pronouns, but you
 can tell the difference in the King James Version when Christ is speaking to one or when
 he's speaking to many, and that distinction is lost in modern English and in the modern
 translations, it will be you, you, you all the way through, and you can't tell that,
 but now he's no longer speaking just to Peter, but to all of them. So things have changed
 here. It doesn't pick up so much Peter's point. Let not your heart be troubled. Actually
 something else doesn't come through here in the English translation, and that is that
 the Greek really says, "Do not go on allowing your heart to be troubled, or do not let your
 heart continue to be troubled. Let not your heart be troubled." You are troubled, but
 of course they are, because Christ has told them that one of them is going to betray him,
 and that's deeply upsetting to them. Apart from the betrayer, Judas, they love him. That's
 disturbing. He's told them he's going away, and that disturbs them also. So it's necessary
 for these words of assurance, "Don't continue troubled." You believe in God? Believe also
 in me. You have said that I am the Messiah, that I am the Son of God. I am the Christ
 who will bring the way of salvation, promised over the centuries, to this nation, to the
 Jews. You believe in God? Believe also in me, and you won't be troubled. At betrayal,
 at death, he could say to them, "I've told you several times over that I'm going to be
 arrested, and suffer, and die, and I shall rise again." And I've told you what for?
 And I am the one who brings redemption. I've compared myself to a door, to eternal life,
 and to knowledge of God. I am the one who will make it possible for you to come to God
 and walk with him and know him. So he says to them, "Don't go on being troubled at the
 things that are happening. These things are inevitable. This is all part of the plan.
 You, just as you believe in God, believe also in me as Messiah." And then he goes on in
 verse 2, "In my father's house are many mansions, dwelling places, abiding places."
 In other words, heaven is large enough, of course it is, for all who are forgiven by God,
 and all who are to be saved, and dwell with him eternally. In my father's house are many
 dwelling places, mansions in our translation. If it were not so, I would have told you,
 "But this is the significant part. I go to prepare a place for you. You wouldn't get
 there, but for me, I am going now. What does he mean by going? Well, he's going to suffer
 and die. He's going to be crucified on the cross. He's going to make an atonement for
 all who seek him. He's going to take the punishment of their sin instead of them on
 their behalf so that they don't have to be condemned by God, but can be received and
 blessed and brought into this glorious heavenly future. In my father's house are many mansions
 dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you, "I go to prepare a place
 for you." If he didn't go, that is to say, suffer and die on Calvary, then they could
 never go to heaven. Verse 3, "And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again."
 He did come again, of course, in the resurrection appearances. He was raised from the dead and
 he appeared to the disciples, but that's not what he refers to here. It's a much greater
 thing. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. Christ is going to return,
 and that will be the end of the present world and receive you unto myself. The language
 in the Greek is very telling. I will take you close to myself. Some translate it, and
 it's not exact, but it's the idea. I will embrace you. I will come again and embrace
 you all that where I am, in eternal glory, there ye may be also. And then Christ says
 for us whether I go ye know to death and the way ye know after death to glory to heaven
 and the way ye know, he told them. But, alas, they weren't on the same wavelength. Verse
 5, "Thomas," says unto him, "I think Thomas speaks for them all." Lord, we know not
 whether thou goest and how can we know the way? It's possible that Thomas misunderstood
 everything he'd just said, and thought he was speaking of going away somewhere in that
 land to some place they didn't know about, where he'd retire quietly for a while. It's
 possible Thomas had some earthly place in mind. It should have been obvious to him he
 was speaking about death and heaven. Lord, we know not whether thou goest and how can
 we know the way there? Well, of course, that's quite the wrong understanding. But I pause
 for a moment because you never ask the question about eternal life or about knowing God about
 the way to be reconciled with him and walk with him. You never find out those things
 if you don't ask the right question. The question should be, "How do I get to heaven? How do
 I get to know God? Show me the way for that." And if that isn't in your mind, if you're
 not asking, "How do I know God? How do I get to heaven?" Well, of course, you'll never
 discover the way. Lord, we know not whether thou goest, how can we know the way, the way
 to heaven, the way to life? You won't find it in any amount of human learning, whatever
 your subject, philosophy, science, no earthly subject can tell you the way to God, the
 way to heaven. You won't find the answer in religion, so to speak. Just observance, religious
 observances. You'll only find the answer the way to God from God. And the answer is given
 by Christ in verse 6, "Jesus, Seth unto him, I am the way, the truth and the life." These
 are tremendous words. "I am the way." Christ teaches the way, but that's not what he means.
 He says, "I am the way." That's entirely different. To teach the way is what I'm trying
 to do this evening, but he says of himself, "I am the way personally." The way means
 the road. He is the road to God. He is the road to heaven. Did you realize that before?
 You need a mediator to get to God. You need one between you and God, who is a mighty gulf
 between you. We cannot reach God because he repels us. He pushes us away because he's
 holy, and he is outraged at our sin, and he's indignant against our sin. He is angry in
 a pure, perfect sense against our sin, and he rejects us, and we're under his judgment.
 We cannot approach him. We need a mediator, one who can represent us to God. This is
 the definition, really, of a priest. There are, strictly speaking, no priests on earth.
 In the Old Testament, part of the Scriptures, you had priests, but they were symbols. They
 weren't real priests. They were symbols of a true priest who would come, who would be
 Christ. What then is a priest? A priest is one who brings God to man and brings man to
 God. He is between the two. He brings the blessings and the goodness of God to alienated
 sinful man, and he brings man to know God. A priest works in both directions. There's
 only one real priest. Others are just symbols of this, and that is Christ. He is God, and
 he came down into this world to bring God to us, to suffer and die for our sins, so that
 he was free to bless us with life and heaven, and change us, and hear our prayers, and
 give us wonderful things. So he brings from heaven to earth, from God to us, and he lifts
 us up to God, having died for our sins so that God can receive us. He changes us and
 begins a work in us to prepare us for heaven, makes us people who are filled with gratitude
 to him, and love him in who are being formed, fruits of righteousness, better standards.
 So Christ alone works both ways. He is the link. It's like a bridge. If you want to
 cross a great stretch of water, you build a bridge, a rail bridge, a road bridge, and
 that bridge is the two areas of land. So it is with Christ, he's our bridge to heaven.
 How, by his suffering and death, is living a perfect being God, coming to earth, living
 a perfect life, suffering and dying on Calvary, he's a mediator, our sin bearer, our bridge,
 our connection, our link. So if the question is, what is the road to heaven, what is the
 way to heaven, it is Christ personally. And what he's done, his person and work, he is
 everything. That is why, and we say it with great care, but that is why the prophet behind
 it is no bridge to heaven. He didn't live according to his own record, a perfect life.
 He didn't make an atonement for sinners. He wasn't God. Come to earth, to take our place,
 to be our representative, to suffer and to die for us. Sometimes Muslim will say, "Well,
 you know, I like the Christian faith," and you'll ask them, "Well, what is good about
 the Christian faith?" They say, "It's a religion of peace." Very interesting, and
 it should be true, but it's not fundamentally just that. It is Christ who is the only true
 priest who brings heaven to earth and earth to heaven, who is personally the reconciler,
 the mediator, the scapegoats, the sin bearer. That is amazing that God should do such a
 thing. That Christ who is part of the triune Godhead, he is God, should enter into humanity
 and be humiliated so greatly, and to come down so far as to take our guilt upon himself
 and say to his father, "punish me," instead of them. Somehow, in a way, we cannot conceive
 in our minds. In the space of six hours as he hung on Calvary, he took our eternal weight
 of punishment for everything that we've ever done, which is an offence against God, compressed
 into that time. Not only for me and for you, if you're those who come to Christ, but for
 millions of people who have turned their lives over to Christ through the history of the world.
 That is astonishing love, astonishing kindness. "I am the way," says the Lord. "I am the
 one who brings you to God." Spurgeon used to see a Spurgeon preacher here in the nineteenth
 century for so long, used to tell frequently a story about tide rescuers along some of
 the beaches on the Solway Firth, up on the west coast, the great waterway that separates
 Scotland from England on the west side of the country, and there are many beautiful
 little beaches there but treacherous tides. I've seen quite often in the press accounts
 of people cut off by the tide and drowned, also people caught in quick sands there. So
 while beautiful, there were some dangers there, too. But apparently, while there were a lot
 of lifeboat trips made there, in the nineteenth century, it was done on horseback, and people
 who rode in those areas formed a kind of voluntary group, and they would patrol the beaches at
 difficult times. And the story is inevitably told of two children who were playing on a
 beach, and they got off, cut off by one of these treacherous tides, and were naturally
 terrified to know what to do. And then, through the water, around a little headland, comes
 a man on a horse, and they cry out to him, "How do we get out? Show us the way." And
 with great delight, the man was said to have quoted these very words of Christ, "I am
 the way," and lifted the children onto the horse. And of course, that was true. There
 was no way out except that rescue. And that's Christ. He came, made an atonement, called
 souls to himself, seek him, yield to him, repent of your sin before him, ask him for
 life. He takes you up and changes you and gives you life. "I am the way," and that's
 only the first part of these words. "I am the way, the truth and the life." Why did
 you use all three terms? "He is the way, the bridge, and he is the truth." Well, first
 of all, he is the only genuine Savior. "I am the way, the truth, the life. I am the truth."
 There is only one who is God, who has made an atonement for needy souls. So he's the
 truth in the sense that he's the only real and authentic and genuine Savior. He's the
 truth also in the sense that he fulfills all prophecy, all the ancient prophecies about
 him in the Scripture. And remember, as I often try to say, there is only one historical
 figure in the history of the world who has ever been prophesied. And that is Christ.
 Only Christ. And he's been prophesied many, many times. And he's the fulfillment of all
 the figures and all the prophecies about him. So he's the truth in that sense. "I am the
 fulfillment," he might say, "I am the truth." He's the truth in that he is a personal
 embodiment or revelation of the divine attributes. When we think of Almighty God and his attributes,
 that he is eternal, that he is infallible and all-powerful omnipotent, that he is unchanging,
 that he is holy, that he is just, that he is love encompassing his mercy and his kindness,
 when we think of all the divine attributes, they are all revealed and displayed in Christ.
 So in that sense, "I am the truth." What greater truth can you have than the reality
 of Almighty God and all that is true of God is seen in Christ? Why you should read the
 Gospels and read them regularly. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, the record of the life of
 Christ and just see what he did and how he worked and his kindness never did anything
 for money, lived as a relatively poor man, took no reward, yet performed thousands of
 miracles in all kinds of places, amazing dudes of kindness, restoring sight to the blind,
 healing the most severely, paralyzed and disabled, all manner of things. And his life
 was non-stop teaching, calling people to God, demonstrating the attributes of God, his
 holiness, his kindness, yes, his justice, condemning sin, but making provision for the
 centre for his forgiveness. The more you read the Gospels and you see the life of Christ,
 the more you see, "I am the way, the truth and the life." Why add the life? Well, that's
 what this is all about, eternal life. Only he can give it, only he has the power. I can
 mention again the prophet Muhammad. Did he rise from the dead? Was his power of life ever
 demonstrated? Of course not. But Christ suffered and died for us, and then broke the bands
 of death and rose. Of course, he had to do that, to demonstrate to us that he possessed
 the power of life. He had to do it also, to demonstrate to us that when he suffered and
 died on Calvary, to bear away our punishment, he paid for every sin. He did that work completely
 and perfectly. So if we trust in him and come to him, we know that he has already paid the
 price and settled our condemnation and done away with our guilt and our iniquity. And
 he has the power and the right, therefore, to receive us. He's the way, he's the truth
 and the life, and he'll give it to you. You come to him and give you spiritual life. He'll
 give you a felt union with himself. He'll assure your heart, your know, your sins are
 forgiven, and he is yours. You'll know it too in answered prayer. He'll answer your
 proper and your legitimate prayers wonderfully. He'll have life. He'll open your eyes to
 see spiritual things and to understand his word. You'll understand why the world is as
 it is and what he's done for you and where you're going and future things. Think of
 all the activities in the world, dear friends, all the things that people are doing. What
 are people doing this evening to make themselves happy, to give themselves a lift, a purpose
 for living? What do they hope for in the coming week? There is absolutely nothing in this
 world that you can possibly do which can get you to heaven. Apart from trusting in Christ,
 isn't it sad? Before we come to Christ, we plan our lives. What we're going to do tomorrow
 next week, what I'm going to buy, what I'm going to have or watch or sleep, what my entertainment
 is going to be, what my next adventure, if it's open to me, is going to be. Some of these
 things all very well, all very interesting, but none of them will get you to God or get
 you to heaven except trusting in Christ. How much we need him? I am the way, the truth
 and the life. It's so easy. What's the way to heaven? A redeeming Savior who suffered
 and died for us. Who is that redeeming Savior? He is the truth, the genuine one, the prophesied
 one, the one who revealed his holiness, his divinity, his kindness and his power while
 on earth, the one who revealed his life-giving power. Who is it? Who is the way to heaven?
 The one who can visit this heart of mine and give it a spiritual dimension and spiritual
 life and link me to God and give me the capacity to think and to feel spiritual things as well
 as earthly things. He is the one. I am the way, the truth and the life, how much we need
 Christ. What a sad thing to think lightly of him. What a tragedy it would be to end
 life's journey as you never sought him and never trusted in him and never found him.
 He is the vote, endless illustrations of bridges. An aircraft can get you from one continent
 to another. You would never swim it, you would never row it. That's a bridge. Christ
 is the one who can lift you up out of your present mere earthly life and give you spiritual
 life and being and sense and be your God and your Savior and your companion and take you
 to eternal glory. Come to him. Tell him you need him. Tell him all your sin. Believe
 only in Calvary and hand over your life to him and you know you're his, one just final
 word. When I took this pathway to come to Christ more than sixty years ago, I so badly,
 well, one minute, I was running away from him. But then that all changed and I saw God worked
 in my life, said I saw my need of him. And I longed to be a Christian, to feel certain,
 to know that I had come to the Lord and found him. And I didn't realize it, but I was almost
 willing myself to experience Christ and to come to him and know him. And then I was given
 by somebody, not knowing my state or condition, a booklet about a man in the past who had
 this very experience and he wrote about how he couldn't find the Lord. All his seeking
 and his praying got him nowhere, and he realized he was trying to will himself into the kingdom.
 And he just had to stop that and trust Christ and express his trust in him and believe in
 him. And once he did that, everything was different. He knew he had found the Lord and
 his life was flooded with certainty and I realized that was my condition. I had to stop thinking
 that my earnestness or praying for this would accomplish it. I just trust Christ and his
 promise that whoever believes in him, he would in no wise cast out. And I laid myself at
 his feet as it were and put my trust in him and prayed for conversion and for grace.
 And almost in no time at all, I began to see things so differently and realized that he
 had affected my life profoundly and utterly. Friends do that, trust him, pray to him, find
 a quiet place, yield yourself to him in repentance and faith, and he will save you. I am the
 way, the truth and the life. Let's pray.
 Oh Lord, look upon us all this night and help us. Lord, draw men, women to thyself. Do that
 work within that transforming work, convict us of our need and our sin, and receive us
 when we come. Oh Lord, that we may be thine. We ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our
 only Lord and Savior for His sake. Amen.
