 I'm turning now to the book of the Prophet Jeremiah, chapter 1, and the very first verse.
 Jeremiah chapter 1 verse 1, the words of Jeremiah, the son of hillcar of the priests that were
 in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin.
 Well, I'd like to look, God willing, for a number of weeks, at some key passages in
 Jeremiah.
 And this evening, we'll be looking at this first chapter, the very remarkable call of
 a spokesman for the Lord, for God.
 The Jeremiah, a minister from around 627 BC, he began to prophesy in King Josiah's 13th
 year.
 He would have been between 20 and 25 years of age when he began.
 He ministered in all probability for over 50 years, after the fall of Jerusalem, went
 with people into captivity, and indications are for some little while after that he was
 still ministering, somewhere between 50 and 55 years.
 He is the son of a priest, the son of hillcar, a priest, Anathoth is just two or three miles
 northeast of Jerusalem from a priestly village there.
 His father, hillcar, was not the same hillcar as just a little later.
 In the 18th year of the reign of Josiah, a priest named hillcar discovered the book
 of the law, and that's very significant in understanding the book of the prophet Jeremiah.
 The words of Jeremiah, the son of hillcar, a priest and a prophet.
 In verse 2, "To whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah, the son of M1
 king of Judah, in the 13th year of Israel."
 So all the dating can be fairly precise.
 And then the passage goes on to speak of his subsequent ministry, but I go down to verse
 4 at that time, the time indicated in the first two verses, the word of the Lord came
 to Jeremiah saying, verse 5, "Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, and before
 thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the
 nations." That doesn't mean to say that he was given the gift of prophecy before he
 came forth out of the womb, but he was set aside from birth by the Lord.
 It was foreordained that he would be a key prophet of the Lord, and in due course the
 Lord would train him and prepare him, but this was enacted by God or determined by God
 even from the very beginning, and indeed before the beginning of his life.
 Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, I set my mind and my love upon you,
 and before you came out of the womb, you were set aside and ordained, appointed a prophet
 unto the nations, unto the nations in the plural, yes, because this prophecy is going
 to involve the key nations of that time, Chaldea, Assyria, Egypt, of course, Persia,
 all are going to be mentioned in the course of this prophecy, but more, this prophecy
 is going to be speaking about the church age before long. In two notable passages, one
 extremely long, there are going to be predictions about all the nations of the world in the
 last age, the gospel age, the church age, and so I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations.
 His word is going to speak not only then, but across the centuries into the future.
 But the reaction of Jeremiah to this, which is so well known in verse 6, then said I,
 remember, he's a young man between 20 and 25, our Lord God, behold, I cannot speak for
 I am a child. And what he plainly means by that is I have no standing. I am not a mature
 person. How can I speak to any authoritatively, to any minor region? Let alone the land, let
 alone nations in the plural. How can I speak? I'm unsupported. I have no authority, no
 standing, no eminence, no fame. I'm a completely insignificant person, a son of a priest from
 a village, a little outside Jerusalem. And all that kind of thing is compounded in this
 protest. I cannot speak for I am a child, perfectly capable of speaking physically on
 the young side, perhaps as a man, but capable, that's feeling his smallness and inadequacy.
 And you could feel that in any age. How can we reach communities, cities, countries? We
 are ordinary people. We are insignificant. Surely God would call people who have some
 fame, some achievements or accomplishment whose names are known. That's how the world
 would do something. Somebody famous would be the chief or the chairman of some movement
 as the spokesperson, somebody who can command attention. So you can see Jeremiah's situation
 and his point of view. I cannot do this. I have no credentials and none of these supportive
 powers. But verse 7, "The Lord said unto me, 'Say not I am a child without any of these
 various aids, for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, your go. And whatsoever
 I command thee, thou shalt speak. And he's not going to be able to protest or complain.
 There's a lot in this statement. You're appointed, Jeremiah, you're to go. And don't ever say
 that again, that you've got no facilities and no support and no fame and nothing to
 commend you. Don't ever say that because I am with you. And when you open your mouth
 and when you speak and when you spread my word, well the spirit is at work and God will accomplish
 all he intends without any of the things that you think are necessary, which you desperately
 need." And that goes for us in every age. The whole problem that strikes us again and
 again through the history of the Christian church is this burning need for something
 that will make people sit up and take notice. So various ideas come up. How can you reach
 the people unless you make it a vast crusade of some kind and you have a choir of thousands.
 And the whole thing is so big and you've organized so much support that you can get
 it on the radio and the television and all the rest of it. That this is going on. Without
 all this, you can't move surely. And the same spirit that quite reasonably in a way
 struck Jeremiah comes up repeatedly in Christian life and witness. But the Lord says, don't
 you say that and don't ever complain for lack of these aids and helps. Whatsoever I command
 thee, thou shalt speak, thou say, be not afraid of their faces. If the Hebrew is more, be
 not afraid in their presence and our translators have gone for faces and it's very effective,
 repeated later in the chapter. Be not afraid that their stony looks comes to our minds
 and their resentment or opposition or their contempt that they may have. Never be afraid
 because you're speaking the divine word and it will accomplish whatever God intends for
 I am with it. The words are significant. I am with thee to deliver thee. In other words,
 you will be attacked and Jeremiah was. He was a man of sorrows. He had the most cruel
 and terrible things done against him as we shall see. He had to suffer deprivation and
 squalid imprisonment in a dungeon and in a pit. He had to go through all kinds of things.
 The promise of God is that he, not that he would avoid those things, but that he would
 be delivered. That is to say, rescued from them. And he was because he was still ministering
 after 55 years. He was still there. His voice was still being heard. The people were being
 challenged and many of the things he had predicted had come to pass before the conclusion of
 his ministry. Jerusalem had fallen. The thing that the occupants never expected to happen
 had happened. Everything that Jeremiah has said had come to pass and he was proved right.
 And he was still standing in the ministry and they were all in captivity. So the promise
 of God was marvelously carried out. The promise wasn't that he wouldn't suffer, but that
 he would be delivered. Seen through, same with us. Speak God's word, there will be suffering.
 In some shape or form, resentment, scorn, contempt, rejection, but it will never be allowed to
 crush us. We may, likely, possible go to prison. There may be physical persecution.
 But God will see us through, and his word will stand at the end. And our work will stand
 when all our assailants have fallen. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee.
 How do you avoid fear? How do you avoid the discomfort and the crushing sensation of being
 scorned and ridiculed and rejected, set at naught? You keep your mind on this, I am
 with thee. And that's everything. That's so powerful. That's such a comfort and such
 a strength. I am with thee to deliver thee and it will happen, set the Lord.
 Verse 9, "Then the Lord put forth his hand and touched my mouth." The unction, he touched
 the mouth of Jeremiah and the difference that made. What that imparted to Jeremiah was remarkable.
 This is no longer my mouth. These are no longer my lips. This is no longer my tongue. This
 is the Lord's. In other words, Jeremiah knew that from that moment on he was never off-duty.
 He was always, wherever he would be, the prophet of God. It's the same with us. As a Christian,
 your mouth is the Lord's. You're never off-duty. You're never out of commission. If
 you're at home and the children are being and it can happen, unusually irritating, perhaps
 even deliberately irritating, you are on duty for the Lord. You cannot lose your composure
 or your dependence upon him or in place of business. Something really callous and unfair
 has happened. But you are on duty for the Lord. You can't react in a fleshly way. And of
 course, it's the same when we represent the Lord. If you teach or if you preach, you are
 always now on duty. He's touched your mouth. Never are you going to take a holiday in
 the world or do something completely wrong, which you wouldn't want to tell anybody about.
 You're always on duty for him and available for him and speaking his word. And the Lord
 said unto me, second part of verse 9, "Behold, I have put my words. Why, that my is emphatic
 in thy mouth. We need to get this across even to some preachers." Now, all they do is tell
 stories, some of them, even Bible-believing preachers. They make up joke stories and
 use them as the basis of witness. Well, of course, you can illustrate. That's good.
 You can use things that serve as very good analogous for Christian truth to help understanding,
 but to substitute the explaining and presenting of God's word, put that on one side and go
 for stories instead. That's scandalous. "Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. See that
 you're always building your message on my words, preaching my words, not your silly
 inventions." This was the problem with Judah at that time. The king was Josiah, and Josiah
 was a godly king. But the people were all over the place. There was such disorder in
 the worship. One of the reasons was that the book of the law of God, as you know, had
 been lost. There was not a copy that anyone knew of in existence. The temple copies appear
 to have been lost. There were one within a few years of this was found to great acclimation
 and triumph. However, this stage, early in Jeremiah's ministry, the book of the law had
 gone completely missing from all the people who had it. There were none. It would appear
 in the priestly villages. No one had a copy of the book of the law. So people invented
 methods of worship, and they went wholesale over to ideology. This is one of the most
 idolatrous periods in all the history of Israel of old, the time of the prophet Jeremiah.
 So there was just invention and disorder everywhere. "Behold, I have put my words into
 thy mouth." Verse 10. See, again, the language is so powerful. See, I have set the over the
 nations this day set the over the nations. What unusual language for a prophet or a preacher,
 I have set you over the nations. Now that doesn't mean, of course, that Jeremiah had
 personal authority of any kind over anyone or over any nation. But the prophecies he would
 make about the Chaldeans, and about the Persians, and about Egypt, about Moab and so on, and
 right into the distant future would all come absolutely to pass. So it was as if by Jeremiah's
 declaration of these things, they happened, absolutely in step. God is saying to Jeremiah,
 these prophecies are going to be so soon, and so accurately fulfilled, that people could
 almost be forgiven for thinking, "You are bringing these things about by your very word.
 You will no sooner have spoken, and it will be done." So I give you authority over the
 nations, and everything came to pass. But it is similar in a way for us, and the Lord
 Jesus Christ said exactly the same to the apostles, and to the young churches it were,
 that the eternal destiny of people is going to, in a mysterious sense, be determined
 by the church who hold the keys of the kingdom. And if we say a person is clean, he'll be
 clean. And if we say he's condemned and polluted, he will be polluted. Is that so? Well, not
 literally, of course, but it means that because we are declaring the Word of God, it's as
 the result of their response to our Word that they are either blessed or judged. So
 it looks as though it's from us was an incentive for proclaiming Christ and the gospel to be
 so blessed, as it looks as though we're commanding and determining the destiny of people. I have
 set thee this day over the nations. God's Word is going to determine everything and
 help people respond to it. Look at the detailed words in verse 10, the tasks of the ministry.
 The first few were negative, only the last two were positive, to root out. That suggests
 to me the rooting out of sin, because the people don't know that they're sinners, and
 they fool themselves, that they're vastly more righteous than they are, that they're
 nice people, and they do good things. And it's only through the Word of God that they're
 going to learn that that is not how God sees them. So we have to bring to the surface what's
 beneath the surface to root things out, to show people down in the dark recesses of their
 hearts, what they really like. So preaching has to find a way of doing that so that the
 Holy Spirit can use that and apply it to hearts without people running out of the building
 and disgust. That's not an easy task, but that's what we must do. Root out and pull
 down, which suggests the pride of man. I remember when I was a youngster and I was converted,
 the prevailing way of preaching in evangelical churches had gone a bit soft. I'm going back
 to the 1950s, and the preachers like to be nice to people. Well, preaching must always
 be nice to people, but the preachers like to be only nice to people. All the people who
 need the Lord, well, they're all nice people. We want to add the Lord to their lives. We
 don't want to offend them, or say anything to them that would shock them. You're a sinner
 and you need to save you, and you're utterly lost, and you're proud, and you're corrupted.
 No, no, no, be nice to people and just show them that there's something even more that
 can make them happy and content and so on and give them Christ. This was the prevailing
 way of preaching. It was very soft, and I remember the first time I ever heard Martin
 Lloyd Jones, Dr. Lloyd Jones at Westminster Chapel, which would have been, I think, 56
 or 57. He was in an evening service dismantling the world, and he wasn't doing it in an unpleasant
 way or in an abusive, condemning way, particularly, but he was demonstrating, very powerfully,
 the foolishness of the world and the shallowness of the world and the corruption of the worldly
 life. It's unsatisfying nature. He was really showing the foolishness of being a worldly,
 and you could see that there were people there who were new to church, who were shocked and
 listening and were waking up. Yes, it's true. My life is shallow. I am a lost person. Now,
 that was not the general way. There were a number of creatures you could hear doing
 it at that time, but it was very rare, and I think of that in this passage here. I have
 set you to root out, to pull down, to destroy, and to throw down. Yes, you have to do that.
 People have to feel their need. It's got to be done in the right spirit, but they've
 got to feel the shallowness and the foolishness and the emptiness and the futility of life
 without the Lord. It's a holy God we're dealing with, and all these words, terms of significance.
 You must destroy that. Then, on the end, to build and to plant, and God uses to Jeremiah
 to join words. He's not giving him an easy task. Building is always arduous. Planting
 is always arduous. So, here's the commission of the person who would be a spokesman for
 God, in witness, in pulpit, in any realm. Verse 11, I'm sorry. Moreover, the word of
 the Lord came onto me, saying, "Jomah, what's seestel?" I said, "I see a rod of an almond
 tree." Our translators have said, "Armond tree." That's not actually what the original
 says. There's a bit of dispute on the sense, but it means either a wakeful tree, a wake,
 or a watchful tree. Now, the translation "arm" and "tree" is really quite brilliant because
 that's exactly what the "arm" and "tree" is. It fruits in the wintertime. And so,
 all eyes are on the "arm" and "tree" because it's of such interest going out of turn as
 it does, but it's called in the original here the watching or the watchful or the wakeful
 tree. And as you read on, you see the significance of this. Verse 12, "Then said the Lord unto
 me, Thou hast well seen, for I will hasten my word to perform it." And you've got the
 picture there of the Lord watching. And the word is no sooner spoken, and God will perform.
 "You preach, I will perform. I am watching you." The "arm" and "tree" phenomenon says.
 "I am awake and watching you, and as you speak, I will act." And that's exactly what happened
 in Jeremiah's case, that so much of what he said happened within his lifetime. Several
 chapters are weighted centuries for fulfillment. Well, that's the significance of the "arm"
 tree. You're called to speak my word, and I will be watching you all the time. Make
 sure you do, and I will be attending you with power. And verse 13, the word of the Lord
 came unto me the second time saying, "What's see us now?" And I said, "I see a seething
 pot, a boiling pot, and the face thereof is toward the north." Well, many people think
 that the boiling pot is the Babylonians who are about to come from the north, but it's
 very much more likely with the older commentators and writers that the seething pot is Judah.
 And you see a boiling pot that's Judah, he had the face thereof is toward the north because
 it's going to be attacked from the north, from all those countries to the north. The
 Assyrians, of course, have been swallowed up by the Babylonians and the Chaldeans, and
 they're going to come sweeping down, and others are going to join with them, wave after wave
 in due course, Persia, and Egypt will turn against them, but from the north, a multiplicity
 of nations will come, and they'll all subdue Jerusalem consecutively. What's the seething
 pot then? Well, it's Judah. Judah would not believe, and the people of Jerusalem would
 not believe that God would allow them to be destroyed. They were idolaters, they ignored
 their God, they acted against him, they ignored his prophet, but in their foolish self-righteousness
 and pride, they said to themselves, "God will not let us go." He will not allow us
 to be destroyed. And yet, while that's what the princes said and what the courts said,
 and the people knew great unrest and fear. They were shaking all the time at the possibility
 of invasion, and being cruelly, crushed, subdued, and taken into captivity. So they were stiff
 necks, and resistant on the one hand, and yet insecure, and terrified on the other. They
 wonder it's called a boiling pot, and the city was always alive with rumors and hostilities
 and troubles because of its disobedience. So Jerusalem and Judah in particular is the
 seething pot, verse 14. "Then the Lord said unto me, out of the north, an evil, a harm
 shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land." And in verse 15, who will invade?
 Who will decide to invade Judah and sat Jerusalem? Why is this verse 15? It won't be the Assyrians
 who decide they'll do it, but their own instruments, it will be the Lord who decides.
 For those says, "God," verse 15, "I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the
 north, Seth the Lord, and they shall come, and they shall set everyone his throne, his
 domination at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all the walls thereof
 roundabout, and against all the cities of Judah. And I will utter my judgments through
 those people, those assailants, against them, touching all their wickedness." This is Judah's
 wickedness, who have forsaken me and have burned incense unto other gods, idolatry the
 biggest problem, and worshiped the works of their own hands. And that brings us to the
 present day, because that's happening just as it happened in Judah. God's people, God's
 Israelite people in Judah, in Jerusalem, God's city, so it happens in the evangelical church
 today. The worship of worldly things and our own gimmicks and ideas and notions are very
 worrying parallel. And God says, "I will utter my judgments against them." So back to the
 commands to Jeremiah, he's calling as the prophet, verse 17, "Thou therefore, you've
 got a ministry of judgments, but also you're going to have a ministry of soul winning.
 It's going to run alongside it. As you speak these great judgments, you're going to be
 appealing to people to repent and trust in the Lord." Jeremiah's book is amazing for
 the amount of gospel arguments and appeals in it. "Thou therefore gird up thy loins,
 that you know well. Gather up your robes. It means to say, summon yourself, pull yourself
 together, and get down to the work with every ounce of energy you can muster, and arise
 and speak unto them all that I command thee." And again, for the second time, be not dismayed
 at their faces, lest I confound thee before them. If you are frightened of scorn and of
 the world and of unbelief and you compromise and you silence your voice or you take your
 foot off the accelerator and slacken in the work of adults and Sunday schooling and other
 things, be careful.
 Lest I make you ashamed in the eyes of the unbelievers. Lest I abandon you and you become
 a weak and stuttering and stumbling church, viewed with derision by the atheists and unbelievers
 around you. Hasn't that happened to a large degree to evangelicalism in our day? That's
 the warning of God. You either go all out, or there is the warning that God may have
 to reduce you. I say it in, "For behold, words of tremendous assurance, I have made
 thee this day, a defence city." It applies to Ezekiel, to Jeremiah as an individual.
 He personally is like a walled city and a great iron pillar or a brass wall against
 the whole land, against the kings. He doesn't know the king, not yet, against the princes,
 against the priests, and they will all be against him and against the people of the land, and
 they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee. You won't be silenced,
 but you in prison, you'll be a witness there, for I am with thee, set the Lord to deliver
 thee. I am with thee, like a great motto for Christians every day of their lives, and
 especially for preachers. Well, I must close, but as a youngster, when I felt called to
 the ministry, I remember reading this chapter alongside others recommended to me by other
 people and being completely turned over by it. You are called to, no matter what, humiliation,
 failure of support. Every kind of rejection and hardship could come. Many great and severe
 disappointments, don't you dare complain. How often we fail in that? Don't you dare complain,
 I am with you. You're set in an alien hostile place to make known Christ, and I says the
 Lord am with you. It's a tremendous chapter. Don't ever embark in the ministry unless
 a passage like this hasn't frightened the life out of you and brought you to see the
 commitment that is required of you, but I am with you. It's sufficient for anything.
 Well, dear friends, it's going to be our privilege, albeit in a brief series, to look
 at some of the highlights of Jeremiah, and particularly the reasonings and the promises
 and the church-age chapters. That's what I hope to dwell on. Let's close this evening
 singing the hymn 305.
